Rework trouble shooting section (#15)
dib-lab/2020-workflows-paper: content/07.troubleshooting.md

Further, the iterative development process of research software means functionality may change, new features may be added, or documentation may be out of date [@doi:10.1007/s10606-018-9333-1].
The challenges of learning and interacting with research software require time and patience [@doi:10.1139/facets-2019-0020].

One of the largest barriers to surmounting these challenges is learning how, when, and where to ask for help.
Below we outline a strategy for troubleshooting that can help build your own knowledge while respecting both your own time and that of research software developers and the larger bioinformatic community.
In the "where to seek help" section, we also recommend locations for asking general questions around data-intensive analysis, including discussion of tool choice, parameter selection, and other analysis strategies.
Beyond these tips, workshops and materials from training organizations such as the Carpentries can arm you with the tools you need to start troubleshooting and jump-start software and data literacy in your community [@doi:10.2218/ijdc.v10i1.351]

### How to help yourself: Try to pinpoint your issue or error

> Software errors can be the result of syntax errors, dependendy issues, operating system conflicts, bugs in the software, problems with the input data, and many other issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software errors can be the result of syntax errors, dependency issues, operating system conflicts, bugs in the software, problems with the input data, and many other issues.
```

> Narrowing down the source of the error is helpful when trying to resolve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Running the software on the test data that comes with the software helps narrow the possibility of error sources -- if the test data successfully runs, the command is likely free of syntax errors, the source code is not completely broken, and the tool is likely interacting appropriately with dependencies and the operating system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the software on the provided test data can help narrow the scope of error sources: if the test data successfully runs, the command is likely free of syntax errors, the source code is functioning, and the tool is likely interacting appropriately with dependencies and the operating system. 
```

If the test data runs but the tool still produces an error when run with your data and parameters, the error message can be helpful in discovering the cause of the error.
In many cases, the error you've encountered has been encountered many times before, and searching for the error online can turn up a working solution.

> If there is a GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket issue tracker for the software, or a Gitter, slack, or google groups page, performing a targeted search with the error message may provide additional context or a solution for the error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a software issue tracker for the software (e.g. on the GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket repository), or a gitter, slack, or google groups page, performing a targeted search with the error message may provide additional context or a solution for the error.
```

This increases the discoverability of error messages and their solutions.

Sometimes, programs fail without outputting an error message. 
In cases like these, the software's help (usually accessible on the command line via `tool-name --help`) and official documentation may provide clues or additional example use cases that may be helpful in resolving an error. 
Syntax errors are extremely common, and typos as small as a single, misplaced character can affect the code.
If a command matches the documentation and appears syntactically correct, the software version (often accessible at the command line `tool-name --version`) may be causing the error.  
Best practices for software development follow "semantic versioning" principles, which aim to keep the arguments and functionality the same for all minor releases of the program (e.g. 1.1 to 1.2) and only change functions with major releases (e.g. 1.x to 2.0).

### How to seek help: include the right details with your question

> When searching for the error message and reading the documentation do not resolve an error, it is usually appropriate to for help either from the software developers or from a bioinformatics community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When searching for the error message and reading the documentation do not resolve an error, it is usually appropriate to for seek help either from the software developers or from a bioinformatics community.
```

When asking for help, it's essential to provide the right details so that other users and developers can understand the exact conditions that produced the error.

> At minimum, include the name and version of the program, the method used to install it, whether or not the test data ran, the exact code that produced the error, the error message, and the full output text from the run (if any is produced additional to the error message).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, include the name and version of the program, the method used to install it, whether or not the test data ran, the exact code that produced the error, the error message, and the full output text from the run (if any is produced).
```

The type and version of the operating system you are using is also helpful to include.
Sometimes, this is enough information for others to spot the error.
However, if it appears that there may bug in the underlying code, specifying or providing the minimum amount of data required to reproduce the error (e.g. reproducible example [@url:https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example; @url:https://community.rstudio.com/t/faq-how-to-do-a-minimal-reproducible-example-reprex-for-beginners/23061]) enables other to reproduce and potentially solve the error at hand. 
Putting the effort into gathering this information both increases your own understanding of the problem and makes it easier and faster for others to help solve your issue.
Furthermore, it signals respect for the time that these developers and community members dedicate to helping troubleshoot and solve user issues.

### Where to seek help: online and local communities of practice

> Online communities and forums are a rich source of archived bioinformatics errors with many helpful community members.

Reviewer: nice

For errors with specific programs, often the best place to post is the developers' preferred location for answering questions and solving errors related to their program.

> For open source programs on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, this is often the "Issues" tab within the software repository, but it could alternatively be a google groups list, Gitter page, or other specified forum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For open source programs on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, this is often the "Issues" tab within the software repository, but it could alternatively be a google groups list, gitter page, or other specified forum.
```

but also slightly repetitive with a sentence above

Usually, the documentation indicates the best location questions.

> If question is more general, such as asking about program choice or workflows, forums relevant to your field such as Stack Overflow or BioStars are good choices, as posts here are often seen by diverse researchers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If question is more general, such as asking about program choice or workflows, forums relevant to your field such as Stack Overflow or BioStars are good choices, as posts here are often seen by a large community of researchers.
```

"diverse researchers" implies a different sort of diversity!
